>> Mike North: So the first improvement
I wanna make is something I'm calling
enhanced client-side rendering.
We'll talk about server-side
rendering in a moment,
it is a great performance
improvement that you can make.
It is complicated, it is tricky,
it is error prone,
I'm going to give you a half
measure that is easy.
There's basically no excuse,
if your app looks like
what we're working with
today there's no excuse for
this for failing to do this easy thing.
And you get to skip all of this
server side rendering headaches.
So the idea here is if we're trying to
get this, if I can give you a way that
we can show the non data parts of the UI,
right just the address bar or
the menu bar at the top,
the little footer, maybe the buttons.
At least the user will feel like
something is happening, and
on a 2G connection, this is basically
gonna take our load time down
from around the seven second mark
to below the two second mark,
massive, massive improvement.
So I should have your attention now,
right?
So here is the recipe,
it's a three step recipe.
>> Mike North: We're gonna modify our
index.ejs, our index.html thing, right?
And we're gonna identify
URL-agnostic parts of what is
rendered on the screen, right?
You're just gonna go look at your elements
tab and say that, here's the HTML for
the nav bar, for the menu bar at
the top and here's the footer, and
it will basically clean it up and I want
that to be the starting point that we use.
And I've taken care of step two for
you, which is to take CSS,
ideally this would be only critical CSS,
but
we're using a really tiny six kilobyte
material design library for this.
So we can get away with all
CSS being treated as critical,
but you would want that embedded in
your index.html avoiding the need for
a roundtrip request in order for
things to get styled.
The idea is as soon as the HTML file
lands, you don't need a second round
trip anywhere before you can
get this screen showing up,
that's how we get this screen showing
up well below the two second mark.
>> Mike North: So I proposed that this is
how we have altered our situation here,
by the time we make a round trip and
get the index.html,
we're going to have our
first Paint here and
I've also indicated that we can
be interactive at this moment.
If you have not already been sold
on the idea of using CSS for
interactivity as opposed to JavaScript,
this is a great reason, right?
The difference between listening for a
JavaScript click event to open up a menu,
to expand it, versus a CSS hover effect,
that hover effect can work right there
without waiting for scripts to download.
Anything that requires like registering
a listener and running a code into hide or
show something, that now, like that
would not be interactive at this moment.
So CSS is a powerful tool for and try to
find way, at least your top level for
navigation, can be driven entirely,
by CSS if possible.
And you can also if you knew
just a little bit of JavaScript,
maybe just adding in or
removing a class for top level nav,
it wouldn't hurt to maybe even embed that
script in your index.html so it's there.
Like as soon this lands, you put it so
that it doesn't block anything
else from downloading but
you can have this one request,
and you're ready to go.
So then we can go and fetch our
Java script, and it comes back, and
we can parse it, boot it, go get some
JSON, now we can start showing data.
So we haven't really improved this metric
here, but the other two we pushed,
way, way, way back,
they're in a much better situation.
So this is what we're
gonna be implementing.
Now I'm gonna talk to you
about server side rendering,
which is the more general solution for
this.
It is inherently really,
really complicated.
It essentially means like your
server is booting up, and
programmatically grabbing the HTML for
your JavaScript app.
So it fits like start up your react app
and go and send it to a particular URL and
then wait for the all of the JSON to
come back to it, and then grab that and
respond with that HTML.